<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">  <meta name="node-id" content="1307"> <meta name="revision-id" content="14532"> <meta name="cms-base-url" content="http://cms.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov"> <meta name="cms-view-url" content="http://cms.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/tpa-inf"> <meta name="cms-edit-url" content="http://cms.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/node/1307/edit"> <meta name="created" content="2011-10-14T13:58:17-04:00"> <meta name="modified" content="2013-04-05T12:26:45-04:00"> <meta name="publication-date" content="2011-10-14T13:58:17-04:00"> <meta name="author" content="yankie"> <meta name="subsite" content="genbank"> <meta name="path" content="genbank/tpa-inf"> <meta name="node-type" content="page"> <meta name="jira-ticket" content=""> <meta name="cms-tags" content="">  <meta name="" content=""> <title>TPA Inferential</title>

<div class="node clear-block">

<div class="content">

## What is a Third Party Annotation:inferential (TPA:inferential) Sequence?

**TPA:inferential** A database of sequences annotated by inference, where the source molecule or its product(s) have not been the subject of direct experimentation.

A TPA sequence is derived or assembled from primary sequence data currently found in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank databases. It can be genomic or mRNA sequence, and can be assembled or derived from primary genomic and/or mRNA sequences. These sequences are submitted to DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank as part of the process of publishing biological experiments that include the annotation of existing nucleotide sequences in the primary sequence database.

## Examples of TPA:inferential

*   CDS and related annotation applied to a sequence derived from existing genomic and/or mRNA primary data with reported wet-lab experimental evidence for a homologous molecule but no direct wet-lab experimental evidence. The reported experimental evidence must have been generated by the submission group and must be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
*   CDS and related annotation applied to a sequence derived from existing genomic and/or mRNA primary data in addition to novel sequencing with no wet-lab experimental evidence. If the novel sequence was only used to bridge two pieces of sequence, there must be reported wet-lab experimental evidence for a homologous molecule.
*   Sequence and annotation covered in a review paper or discussion section, where wet-lab experimental evidence is reported, but not generated by the TPA submitter. The experimental evidence should be reported directly in the review paper or be from a paper by the author of the review paper.
*   Annotation of non-coding genes and transcripts with no wet-lab experimental evidence for their existence and/or function but are submitted as part of a study. One or more of the study's sequences should be supported by experimental evidence and be in TPA:experimental or DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank. For an example of this type of study see PubMed [14681587.](/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&list_uids=14681587) The annotations cannot be generated by an annotation program such as tRNAscan.
*   Annotation of pseudogenes with no wet-lab experimental evidence, when submitted as part of a study that includes sequences of functional homologs of the pseudogene. One or more of the study's sequences should be supported by experimental evidence and be in TPA:experimental or DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank.
*   Annotation of pseudogenes that are not part of a gene study but there is experimental evidence. An example of experimental work done to support the description of a pseudogene can be found in PubMed [15908099.](/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&list_uids=15908099)
*   A sequence submitted as part of a collection of annotated members of a gene family, where wet-lab experimental evidence does not exist for the annotation. One or more members of the set should be supported by experimental evidence and be in TPA:experimental or DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank.
*   A sequence representing an assembled genome or naturally occurring plasmid that includes features with assigned gene symbols or product identifiers, where the annotated features may be a mix of experimentally and inferentially determined data.

## How Do TPA:inferential Sequence Records Differ from TPA:experimental and Other GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ Records?

The display of a TPA record is similar to other Collaboration records, but includes the following:

*   Keywords: TPA; Third Party Annotation; TPA:inferential.
*   The label 'TPA_inf:' at the beginning of each Definition Line.
*   PRIMARY field providing the base pair spans of the primary sequences that contribute to the TPA sequence.

Other Features and References are similar to those displayed in other GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ records.

An example of a TPA:inferential submission is [BK000554](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?cmd=Retrieve&db=nucleotide&dopt=GenBank&list_uids=32880373)

TPA sequence records are shared by all three Collaboration databases and can be found using typical search methods in EntrezNuc and EntrezProt (ie, submitter name, gene/protein name, Accession Number, etc)

## How to Submit TPA Sequence Data

Sequence can be submitted to the TPA database through either BankIt or Sequin:

*   [BankIt](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/WebSub/?tool=genbank)
    *   Check 'No' to answer the question 'Is This Primary Sequence Data?'.
    *   Input list of Accession Numbers of all the primary sequences used to assemble or derive the submitted sequence.
    *   Provide explanation of all experimental evidence.
    *   Complete standard submission process, being sure to annotate all new descriptive information (CDS, protein name, gene name, etc) for the TPA sequence.
    *   Sequence submission will be labeled as a TPA sequence and will be processed accordingly.
*   [Sequin](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Sequin/)
    *   Follow standard procedure for Sequin submission.
    *   Choose Third Party Annotation from the Sequence Format window under Submission category
    *   The Assembly Tracking box will appear with the flatfile display. The primary Accession Number(s) used to assemble/derive the TPA sequence should be entered into this box.
    *   Click on Accept; new COMMENT field will appear in the flatfile, which will list the primary sequence Accession Numbers.
    *   It is recommended that the submitter note in the email that contains the sequence submission that this is intended for TPA.

## What should not be submitted to TPA:inferential

*   Sequences with annotation supported by experimental evidence. See TPA:experimental
*   Synthetic constructs such as cloning vectors that use well characterized, publicly available genes, promoters, or terminators; these should be submitted as synthetic sequences for [GenBank](/Genbank/submit) .
*   Microsatellites and related types of repeat regions
*   New sequence updates or changes existing sequence data from another submitter; these should be submitted as new sequences for [GenBank](/Genbank/submit) .
*   Annotation that has arisen from an automated tool, such as GeneMark, tRNA scan or ORF finder, where no further evidence, experimental or otherwise, is presented for the annotation.
*   Annotation from in vivo, in vitro, or in silico experimentation that will not be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal.

</div>

</div>

<div id="shared-content-1" nid="1308">

<div class="rightnav">

## TPA Resources

*   [About TPA](/~/TPA)
*   [FAQ](/~/tpafaq)
*   [TPA-Experimental](/~/TPA-Exp)
*   [TPA-Inferential](/~/TPA-Inf)

</div>

</div>